Hi, everyone. I'm Catherine. I'm really excited to talk to you today about WeAreRLadies, which
is the ROKR for RLadies Global. What is a ROKR, you ask? Good question. A ROKR is a
rotating curation account, which means that there's a rotating spokesperson for a given
social media account. And this is pretty intuitive for an organization like RLadies, because
we have 180 plus chapters worldwide, and there are so many awesome people doing such
amazing things. So every week, we have a different person curate or tweet from WeAreRLadies.
They discuss their experiences, they discuss how they use R, and maybe some tips and tricks
along the way. Since this account started in August 2018, we've gained 15,000 plus followers.
We've had 56 awesome curators across 19 different countries. And hopefully, there's more to
come in 2020. This picture on the left is actually our very first tweet from our first
curator ever, which was Mara Averick. So if we look at the most frequently used words
from tweets in this account, you'll see that it looks very similar to what you might see
on the rstats hashtag, things like data, package, code. However, for every technical topic that
we speak about, curators are really generous about talking about their experiences. They're
talking about what they love, their community, their learning journeys. And I think this
is really what makes this account special. And for me, at least, it's very similar to
what I might experience at my local RLadies chapter. Here is the most liked tweet of our
account thus far. And I think it's a little bit of both. It's explaining the package praise,
which got also a shout out this morning at Jenny Bryan's keynote. And it's just a fun
package that people are really excited to learn about. However, not everything is fun,
right? Our experiences are not only the fun stuff, but also the things that might be frustrating
about R. And we're all learning together, and no one seems to be an expert. So even
our curators have questions. One tweet that I really liked was from Sina, and she talked
about her frustration installing RCPP parallel. And basically every reply to this tweet was,
I'm so glad I'm not alone. So if we look at a really quick sentiment analysis of all
of the tweets on this account, we have the most negatively charged words on the left
and the most positively charged words on the right. We're a pretty positive group, I would
say. There are things that are negative about the tweets in our account, primarily driven
by, like, evil plots. Things like tricks and regression. Really, really negative. Conversely,
things that are positive is mainly because we love talking about things that are shiny.
So it's really interesting what comes up when we do a sentiment analysis on this. But some
of this jargon aside, we're still talking about issues, get related or not, mistakes
and difficulties. And in a Twitter world where everyone seems like a superstar, this has
been really comforting to me and made the Twitter community a little bit more accessible.
In the 2700 tweets that are currently in this dataset, which doesn't even include
anyone this year, we've had about 400 plus questions and counting. Maybe there's a little
bit more. This was a quick regular expression looking at all of the tweets that contained
question marks. And basically we're seeing that everyone's asking questions, whether
they're a student or a senior data scientist. And these questions aren't only just about
our confusions. They're also just engaging conversation, which I think is really, really
awesome. One tweet that I really love from my friend
Kaylin, she asked people what they love about data science and or statistics. And she also
just gave her response to this question as well. And the replies from this tweet were
just really, really awesome and really, really encouraging for someone who might be new to
the field. So I just want to end with maybe a shameless
plug. If you aren't following We Are Our Ladies, in my unbiased opinion, I think it's worth
following. And if you are interested, please just consider curating for We Are Our Ladies.
It doesn't matter whether you're a beginner or whether you've been through the ringer
with R, we're all learning together and everyone's perspective is valuable. And this is something
that I really have found to ring true from having to read every single tweet on this
account. So I just also want to close quickly with some acknowledgements. There's a lot
of great people who make this Roker happen. Particularly a huge thank you to the curators
that make it worth following week after week. Thank you so much.